# Individual Assessment

### Self-Assessment
Completing our project by the deadline took a group effort, but as an individual, my primary role was ensuring all the datasets/database was accurate in order to be used in our tool. I made sure all the datasets were formatted the same and correctly so that they would be able to communicate with each other. I put all our data into the database to be read by all team members. Besides working on the data, I filled any gap that the team had during our project. We originally had 4 team members but lost one at the beginning of the project. The team worked together to fill that 4th and final role. Throughout the project, I continuously made updates to the GitHub, adding to the readme to capture what our team is attempting to accomplish, how we will accomplish, and what were did accomplish. I would compare our submissions to the rubric to ensure we completed all the things required by the rubric for the weeks grade. When the team would send items for review, I would review the items and make any changes/recommendations as needed. This was a complete team effort. The greatest challenge I had with this project was finding the time to complete my duties. Working a fulltime job, taking care of my family, and attending a funeral all during the final project made that hard. I overcame my challenge by planning out what and how much I would get done each day. If I had extra time one day, I would complete a little more to take some of the burden off other days. Time management was the hardest during this project. 

### Team Assessment
Our group overcame a hurdle to get the team roles established. Our group started out with 4 team members, but we lost a team member right at the beginning. Initially, each team member was able to get the role they desired; however, one team member has not shown up to agree to the roles and we found out that we lost that said team member. As a group of three, we decided to keep our original roles that we requested and then work as a team to cover the 4th role. Our group remained in constant contact via slack to provide any updates that were made to our project. We also used our time wisely during class time to discuss what needs to be completed and how we were going to complete those tasks via zoom. Our team was excellent in communicating and filling a gapped role. We would work together to determine who was going to complete which portion of the project. Being able to work efficiently as a team helped us complete our project in a timely manner despite being down a team member. Having good communication with each team member is key to completing the project by the deadline and that is exactly what our group had; if one team member was unable or unavailable to complete their portion by the deadline, another team member would step in and assist in completing that task. Very satisfied and proud of our group.

### Summary of Project
For our group project we decided to build an NFL prediction tool for the upcoming 2022 NFL season. We chose this project because we are all football fans. We are fans of the Eagles, Bills, and the Packers. We can use our prediction tool to see how the outcomes of our teams will fair in the upcoming 2022 season. The application will also show historical data and statistical data for fantasy football positions for all teams.  For our analysis we will use python and tableau. We will use python (such as pandas, numby, and Scikit-learn linear regression model) to create the code needed for our analysis. We will import the data sets we acquired and display our results/visuals using tableau.  Our team is using an online database with continuous NFL statistics updates to have the most up to date information for our tool. The database that is used is sportsipy (sportsipy.nfl.boxscore.Boxscore).  After running our completed application, based on our analysis, our prediction for the upcoming season will have the Buffalo Bills winning the Superbowl. 
